- [Instructor] Now let's take a look at
the declaration demo.
What we are going to do is when I click on the login
hyperlink on my landing page,
there's a section out here which is going to display
date and time for me.
Now this date and time is of course going to change
on a daily basis.
The time may be minute basis, second basis, etc.
So what we're going to do is we're going to display
this date and time dynamically
and all of this we're going to do with the
declaration element.
So let's go to the login jsp in our Eclipse.
This is the login jsp and line number 38 onwards
is the section which will allow me to display that
date and time.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go at the
end of this file, and after the footer on line number 82,
I'm going to open up a declaration element.
Please note that the code for declaration or scriplet
elements can be written anywhere on this jsp page.
It really doesn't matter with the order
that you're following.
So let me begin a declaration element which looks like this.
Yeah.
So now whatever code that I write inside the declaration
element, is going to go and sit inside the servlet file
of this translator jsp.
So on line number 83 I'm now going to introduce a method,
because declaration element allows you to do that.
It allows you to introduce new variables
or new methods in the translated file of your jsp.
So let's a method here.
Let's say public, string, display date.
So the job of this method is to basically display the date
for today.
Let's go ahead and give it a body.
Yeah.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to use the
simple date format of the java library,
and let's say instantiate the simple date formatter.
Let's define a format here in the form of a string.
So I'm going to say yyyy, mm, dd and with a space
for the hours and minutes.
That's the format I want.
Let's also go ahead and take today's date with the help of
java dot util dot date.
And I'm going to opt in the date using the calendar
instance, so I'm going to say calendar dot get instance
and on that I'll chain another API called get time.
Once I do this, I am going to take this date format,
and invoke the format API and pass on that today's date.
Right.
What I want to do is, this of course is going to return
me something of the kind string,
so I'm going to exactly take this.
Put up a return statement here and then push on this value.
So that, the display date is going to calculate today's
date, it's going to set a format in order for the
date to be displayed, and it's going to return that
formatted date back from this method.
Now what I want to do is, I want to invoke this method
on that section of the page which is going to display
the date and time.
So let's copy this method name.
Go back to that section which is going to display
the date and time which is on line number 40.
And which element will allow us to evaluate an expression?
An expression element.
So let's go ahead and embed that expression element there.
And paste the methods name and basically invoke it.
So now when I run these changes, it should call that method
and it should give me the date printed on my page.
So let's go ahead and run this and check the changes.
So now when I click on the login hyperlink,
there you go.
You have today's date along with the time
being displayed on that section.
So now this time can dynamically change whenever
you access this page.
So we've done that with the help of declaration
and expression elements.
So basically to summarize jsp elements give you a way
to dynamically generate code.
It can be a combination of scripted and expression
or expression and declaration,
or maybe even all the three of them together.